Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture you're going to be looking at setting default values within a function.
So when you create a function you can define default value for each parameter.
If an argument for a parameter is provided in the function call Python uses that argument.
If not it uses the parameters default value.
So let's go back to our book program.
So as always start out with T.F. book description.
Now what we're going to put in is her name so of her name and then we're going to have a default value
here book type equals nonfiction
OK.
So there we go.
Nothing to drastically new there no open air quotes display book information
closer quotes.
And as always print OpenTable double quote backslash newline this book is a closer quote Plus book type
plus full stop OK.
Next print the author of this book is closer quote.
Plus her name
OK and I've made a typo.
Here's what you can see.
I've mistype my e and names just changed us and change it here so we don't have any conflict errors.
Often name named title brackets close or break and plus
full stop.
OK now onto the interesting part.
Our function call so Book Description.
Nothing new here and our author is Ashley Vance.
OK so I'm only putting in one argument here because back in our function description we set a default
value of book type nonfiction so we don't need to pass the argument from a function call of book type.
That's Rundell all error.
What did we get.
Line 11.
Here we are instead of putting in a full stop.
I put it in a comma.
There we go.
OK so let's run this again.
This book is nonfiction.
The author of this book is Ashlee Vance.
So as you can see because we put in a default value in our parameters book type we don't need to mention
book type in our function called down here.
Also another important thing to note here is that we have changed the order of the parameters.
This is because default values makes it necessary to specify a type of book as an argument.
The only argument left in the function call is the author's name.
Python still interprets this as a position argument.
So if the function is called which is an author's name the argument will match up with the first parameter
listed in the function's definition.
This is the reason the first primary needs to be alternate.
The simplest way to use this function is provide just an author's name and a function call which you've
just done.
Actually that's how we go.
If we wanted to override our default value of nonfiction for pop type we could do the following into
our function call and are in a new argument.
So actually events come up book type equals fiction.
So let's see now.
So as you can see I'd be wrong that this book this book is a fiction book.
I need to tidy that up so what I'm going to do now here is just correct that this is a
fiction.
There we go.
Let's run it again.
This is a fiction and I should say book they're not fiction fiction book.
There we go.
It is a fiction book.
The author of this book is actually Vantz.
So as you can see here by entering in an argument book type equals fiction we override our parameters
default value.
So I hope you found that useful.
And as always if you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me.